== Readme

BookHub: The right book will always keep you company

Project Abstract:
BookHub is a student portal for selling and buying old academic books pertaining to SFU courses. Users can sign up only if they have a valid account linked to SFU student portal. Once the signup process is completed, students can access their account anytime. The portal shall keep the track of all the books purchased and sold by the student. Also, the student shall be able to view the status of all the books he/she has posted for selling. In addition, BookHub shall maintain a database for all its users, available books, Wish Listed books, all the purchases and users associated with each sale and purchase. This shall be of tremendous importance when it comes to security purposes. Overall, the web application is intended to lessen the burden of keeping track of a wide variety of books on the ‘SFU Old Books’ Facebook page and provide students with a simpler and quicker access to their purposes.

Current Approach to the Problem:
Students at SFU do not have an exclusive access to the academic books that they might want to sell or buy (FOR CHEAP!). Most of the students either try to seep in their books through the SFU housing page on Facebook or the ‘SFU Old Books’ page on Facebook. However, this poses several problems to the students. They find it difficult to keep a track of the books that they have posted for selling. The book might get lost in the Facebook pages with a lot of other stuff hovering over it. Every time any student wish to buy a book needs to contact the seller if the book is still available. Also, there is no provision for a student to keep a track of all the books he/she has posted for selling, know the status of those books. Moreover, locating if a certain book is available requires scrolling through tons of books that might not even be related to the student interest.

BookHub makes it easier: 
Firstly, this project would provide the students with an exclusive platform for selling and buying used SFU books. Each student shall have a database to keep a track of all the books that he/she posted for selling and/or has added to the Wishlist. Also, they will be notified if any of the sought books become available at a certain point in time or a student is interested in buying a book posted by another student. Hence, it would reduce the burden of regular check to the posted books and sought books on a Facebook page that is not even an exclusive page for SFU old books. Another great feature of the portal is that students shall be able to search for the books they require based on the name of the book as well as the course name. This will immensely reduce the burden of scrolling through a complete page and check each and every book.

Target Audience / Customers: 
BookHub is a website, which would be restricted for serving the purpose of SFU students. Only students, who are linked to SFU with a student account shall be eligible to build an account with BookHub. Nevertheless, based on the initial response to the web application and student demands, this can be expanded to include students from other universities as well. However, BookHub shall not be expanded to non-student accesses since it could pollute the otherwise academic student portal. Hence, BookHub shall be limited only to academic books. Nonetheless, there might be a consideration to provide some remote access to verified old book sellers so that they can post SFU course books that might of interest to several students.

Scope of the Project:
BookHub shall incorporate several features to serve the needs of SFU students. There would be a sign up for unverified users to verify their account. Once verified each user would be able to manage his/her profile through sign in. There would be a search column where a user could search for the required books. The user could search a book by specifying various details. For instance, the user could search for a book using the name of the book, ISBN of the book or even the name of the course that requires that particular book. There would be a column where a user could post a book to be sold along with all the relevant details such as pictures, condition of the book, price etc. In case a book is not available in the BookHub, then the student could add the book in the Wish List. If the book becomes available at certain point of time in future, all the students who have added that particular book in the Wish List shall be notified with an email. There might be a consideration to allow some remote access to verified old book sellers (only for SFU course books) so that they can post books on the portal that might serve the requirements of several SFU students.

Modified For Iteration 1:
Competitive Analysis:
This website is basically a competition to all the websites those who sell used books online. For instance – amazon, sfu used books (Facebook Page). It will be a firm competition to these sites as it will be exclusive to sfu students only, so they will have a cluster of books to buy from and it will have a functionality that will allow them to set the time by which their book will be out to sell. This will increase the availability scope as books will be readily be available as soon as possible. This website will be a zero-profit organization so this will benefit students and it will have a donation column which will allow people to donate books and those books will be available to students who have them in their wish list. As this site is exclusive to sfu, we will try to connect it to sfu administration so that no one has to wait and set up a meeting point. They can just give the book to sfu administration and will have to show their id and the sold-out number that will be provided by the website once the person pays for the book. If we can get permission from SFU, we will try to connect this to the sfu account so that the money can be sent directly deposited to the account. These functionalities will give us a competitive edge on the other sites.

User Stories:
There are two types of users in the website right now: admin and normal user
1.	Admin: Admin has a specific email and password and as an admin, I will use it, to log in to the website. The database will be presented to the admin in form of a table and as an admin, I can access that using the Database button provided to me after I log in. In future, as an admin, I can see the number of books that a specific user has sold or bought or is willing to sell or buy. As an admin, I will also be able to delete the users.
2.	Normal user: As a normal user, I will, first, sign up to make an account on the website and then will use that username and password to log in to the website. In future, as a normal user, I will be able to put books for sale and can also look at the books available for buying.

Retrospective:
Our team has four members and we tried to use the agile process for our first iteration. We broke up our work into small parts and different roles were given to team members depending on which role is best suited for them. Rajat Mangal did most of the designing and coded the Html documents and gave the structure to the site. Eric Zhuang coded CSS and JavaScript files. Nipun Jindal established the database for sign up of different users and coded sessions for log in. Agamdeep Singh tested the application and deployed the work to Heroku. For iteration 1, the distribution of responsibilities went very well with the whole team and each person could give valuable inputs as per his expertise to the team. Also, constant motivation and addressing any technical difficulties experienced by team mates really helped to uplift the moral of the team. However, there were a couple of fronts that we did not go as well as we had planned for the iteration. Most of the work was done during the three meetings held on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday (12,13,14 February 2018). Though we had an introductory meeting on 5th February 2018 to discuss the way in which we shall approach to iteration 1, since all of the team members were novice to this field, it took us a while to get used to the web development environment. This ultimately delayed the actual implementation of iteration 1 on 12,13,14 February 2018 as stated earlier. Also, for this iteration, we did not have much knowledge about GitHub and its appropriate use and hence, we were not able to employ GitHub to our benefit in great extent. Taking inputs from iteration 1, we would like to work on both issues. Hence, for iteration 2, we would start working on our application to give it a reasonable amount of time to be worked on. In fact, familiarity with the development environment would make things easier for us to approach when we start working for iteration 2. Also, we will try to make the best use of GitHub in the next iteration. Overall, although the work was split up between team members, every person was involved in almost all phases of design and implementation. It was a complete team effort and the team jelled up well. 
